1. What is PIL/Pillow?
👉 PIL (Python Imaging Library) is a Python library used for opening, manipulating, and saving images.
Pillow is the modern, actively maintained fork of PIL — it supports many formats (JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, etc.) and provides tools for resizing, cropping, converting, and filtering images.

2. How do you open and save images?
👉 Using Pillow’s Image module:

from PIL import Image

img = Image.open("photo.jpg")   # Open an image
img.save("photo_resized.png")   # Save image to a new file


Image.open() → loads the image into memory.

save() → saves it in the desired format or location.

3. What is the resize() method?
👉 The resize() method changes the dimensions (width and height) of an image.
Example:

resized = img.resize((800, 800))


This creates a new image of size 800x800 pixels.

4. How do you read all files in a directory?
👉 Using the os module:

import os

for filename in os.listdir("images"):
    print(filename)


os.listdir() lists all files/folders in a directory.

You can then check file extensions to filter image files.

5. What is the os module?
👉 The os module provides functions to interact with the operating system, such as:

Navigating directories

Creating or deleting folders

Reading file paths

Checking or renaming files

Example:

os.makedirs("resized")  # Creates a folder


6. How do you change file formats (e.g., JPG to PNG)?
👉 You can specify the format when saving the image:

img.save("output.png", "PNG")


Even if the original file is .jpg, Pillow can convert it automatically to .png.

7. What is a pixel?
👉 A pixel (picture element) is the smallest unit of a digital image.
Each pixel contains color information (usually RGB values).
When you resize an image, you are changing the number of pixels it contains.

8. What’s the use of try-except here?
👉 It’s used for error handling — for example, if a file is corrupted or not an image, the script won’t crash.
Example:

try:
    img = Image.open(file)
except Exception as e:
    print(f"Error opening {file}: {e}")


This ensures the program continues running even if one file fails.

9. How can you make the app dynamic?
👉 You can:

Ask the user for input at runtime:

width = int(input("Enter width: "))
height = int(input("Enter height: "))


Let users choose the folder, format, or size dynamically.

Add command-line arguments (using argparse) to make it more flexible.

10. Can this be extended to GUI?
👉 Yes ✅
You can create a Graphical User Interface (GUI) using:

Tkinter → for simple desktop apps

PyQt or Kivy → for more advanced interfaces

A GUI could allow users to:

Browse folders

Choose image size

See previews

Start resizing with a single click
